“I am a strange old man” 
“But are you strong enough now for a truly big fish?” 
“I think so. And there are many tricks.” 
[14] “Let us take the stuff home,” the boy said. 
“So I can get the cast net and go after the 
sardines.” 
They picked up the gear from the boat. The old man carried the mast on his shoulder and the 
boy carried the wooden boat with
 the coiled, hard-braided brown lines, the gaff and the harpoon 
with its shaft. The box with the baits was under th
e stern of the skiff along with the club that was 
used to subdue the big fish when they were brought alongside. No one would steal from the old 
man but it was better to take the sail and the he
avy lines home as the dew was bad for them and, 
though he was quite sure no local people would steal 
from him, the old man thought that a gaff and 
a harpoon were needless temptations to leave in a boat. 
They walked up the road together to the old 
man’s shack and went in through its open door. 
The old man leaned the mast with its wrapped sail
 against the wall and the boy put the box and the 
other gear beside it. The 
mast was nearly as long as the one room of the shack. The shack was made 
of the tough budshields of the ro
yal palm which are called guano and 
in it there was a bed, a table, 
one chair, and a place on the dirt floor to cook wi
th charcoal. On the brown walls of the flattened, 
overlapping leaves of the sturdy 
fibered [15] guano there was a pictu
re in color of the Sacred Heart 
of Jesus and another of the Virgin of Cobre. Thes
e were relics of his wife. Once there had been a 
tinted photograph of his wife on the wall but he had 
taken it down because it made him too lonely 
to see it and it was on the shelf in the corner under his clean shirt. 
“What do you have to eat?” the boy asked. 
“A pot of yellow rice with fish. Do you want some?” 
“No. I will eat at home. Do you want me to make the fire?” 
“No. I will make it later on. 
Or I may eat the rice cold.” 
“May I take the cast net?” 
“Of course.” 
There was no cast net and the boy remembered 
when they had sold it. But they went through 
this fiction every day. There was no pot of ye
llow rice and fish and the boy knew this too. 
“Eighty-five is a lucky number,” the old man sa
id. “How would you like to see me bring one in 
that dressed out over a thousand pounds?” 
“I’ll get the cast net and go for sardines. Will you sit in the sun in the doorway?” 
[16] “Yes. I have yesterday’s pape
r and I will read the baseball.” 
The boy did not know whether yesterday’s paper wa
s a fiction too. But the old man brought it 
out from under the bed. 
“Perico gave it to me at the bodega,” he explaine
d. “I’ll be back when I have the sardines. I’ll 
keep yours and mine together on 
ice and we can share them in the morning. When I come back you 
can tell me about the baseball.” 
“The Yankees cannot lose.” 
“But I fear the Indians of Cleveland.” 
“Have faith in the Yankees my son. Think of the great DiMaggio.” 
“I fear both the Tigers of Detroit and the Indians of Cleveland.” 
“Be careful or you will fear even the Reds of Cincinnati and the White Sax of Chicago.” 
“You study it and tell me when I come back.” 
“Do you think we should buy a terminal of the lottery with an eighty-five? Tomorrow is the 
eighty-fifth day.” 
“We can do that,” the boy said. “But what a
bout the eighty-seven of your great record?” 
[17] “It could not happen twice. Do you 
think you can find an eighty-five?” 
“I can order one. 
“One sheet. That’s two dollars and a half. Who can we borrow that from?” 
“That’s easy. I can always borrow two dollars and a half.” 
“I think perhaps I can too. But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg.” 
“Keep warm old man,” the boy said. “Remember we are in September.” 
“The month when the great fish come,” the old man said. “Anyone can be a fisherman in 
May.” 
“I go now for the sardines,” the boy said. 
When the boy came back the old man was asleep in the chair and the sun was down. The boy 
took the old army blanket off the bed and spread it over the back of the chair and over the old 
man’s shoulders. They were strange shoulders, still 
powerful although very old, and the neck was still 
strong too and the creases did not show so much when the old man was asleep and his head fallen 
forward. His shirt had been patched so many ti
mes that it was like the sail and the patches were 
faded to many different shades by the sun. The [18] old man’s head was very old though and with 
his eyes closed there was no life in his face. The n
ewspaper lay across his knees and the weight of his 
arm held it there in the evening breeze. He was barefooted. 
The boy left him there and when he ca
me back the old man was still asleep. 
“Wake up old man,” the boy said and put his hand on one of the old man’s knees. 
The old man opened his eyes and for a moment he was coming back from a long way away. 
Then he smiled. 
“What have you got?” he asked. 
“Supper,” said the boy. “We’
re going to have supper.” 
“I’m not very hungry.” 
“Come on and eat. You can’t fish and not eat.” 
“I have,” the old man said getting up and taking
 the newspaper and folding it. Then he started 
to fold the blanket. 
“Keep the blanket around you,” the boy said. “You
’ll not fish without eating while I’m alive.” 
“Then live a long time and take care of your
self,” the old man said. “What are we eating?” 
“Black beans and rice, fried bananas, and some stew.” 
[19] The boy had brought them in a two-decker 
metal container from the Terrace. The two sets 
of knives and forks and spoons were in his pocket 
with a paper napkin wrapped around each set. 
“Who gave this to you?” 
“Martin. The owner.” 
“I must thank him.” 
“I thanked him already,” the boy said. “You don’t need to thank him.” 
“I’ll give him the belly meat of a big fish,” the 
old man said. “Has he done this for us more than 
once?” 
“I think so.” 
“I must give him something more than the belly
 meat then. He is very thoughtful for us.” 
“He sent two beers.” 
“I like the beer in cans best.” 
“I know. But this is in bottles, Hatu
ey beer, and I take back the bottles.” 
“That’s very kind of you,” the old man said. “Should we eat?” 
“I’ve been asking you to,” the boy told him ge
ntly. “I have not wished to open the container 
until you were ready.” 
[20] “I’m ready now,” the old man said. “I only needed time to wash.” 
Where did you wash? the boy thought. The village water supply was two streets down the road. 
I must have water here for him, the boy thou
ght, and soap and a good towel. Why am I so 
thoughtless? I must get him another shirt and a jacket for the winter and some sort of shoes and 
another blanket. 
“Your stew is excellent,” the old man said. 
“Tell me about the baseball,” the boy asked him. 
“In the American League it is the Yankees as I said,” the old man said happily.” 
“They lost today,” the boy told him. 
“That means nothing. The great DiMaggio is himself again.” 
“They have other men on the team.” 
“Naturally. But he makes the difference. In the other league, between Brooklyn and 
Philadelphia I must take Brooklyn. But then I think 
of Dick Sisler and those great drives In the old 
park.” 
“There was nothing ever like them. He hits the longest ball I have ever seen.” 
“Do you remember when he used to come to the Terrace?” 
[21] “I wanted to take him fishing but I was t
oo timid to ask him. Then I asked you to ask him 
and you were too timid.” 
“I know. It was a great mistake. He might have 
gone with us. Then we would have that for all 
of our lives.” 
“I would like to take the great DiMaggio fishing,” the old man said. “They say his father was a 
fisherman. Maybe he was as poor as we are and would understand.” 
“The great Sisler’s father was never poor and he
, the father, was playing in the Big Leagues 
when he was my age.” 
“When I was your age I was befo
re the mast on a square rigged sh
ip that ran to Africa and I 
have seen lions on the beaches in the evening.” 
“I know. You told me.” 
“Should we talk about Africa or about baseball?” 
“Baseball I think,” the boy said. “Tell me about the great John J. McGraw.” He said Jota for J. 
“He used to come to the Terrace sometimes too in
 the older days. But he was rough and harsh-
spoken and difficult when he was drinking. His mi
nd was on horses as well as baseball. At least he 
carried lists of [22] horses at all times in his poc
ket and frequently spoke the names of horses on the 
telephone.” 
“He was a great manager,” the boy said. “My father thinks he was the greatest.” 
“Because he came here the most times,” the old man said. “If Durocher had continued to come 
here each year your father woul
d think him the greatest manager.” 
“Who is the greatest manager, rea
lly, Luque or Mike Gonzalez?” 
“I think they are equal.” 
“And the best fisherman is you.” 
“No. I know others better.” 
“Que Va,” the boy said. “There are many good fishermen and some great ones. But there is 
only you.” 
“Thank you. You make me happy.
 I hope no fish will come along so
 great that he will prove us 
wrong.” 
“There is no such fish if you are still strong as you say.” 
“I may not be as strong as I think,” the old 
man said. “But I know many tricks and I have 
resolution.” 
“You ought to go to bed now so that you will be
 fresh in the morning. I will take the things 
back to the Terrace.” 
[23] “Good night then. I will wake you in the morning.” 
“You’re my alarm clock,” the boy said. 
“Age is my alarm clock,” the old man said. “Why 
do old men wake so early? Is it to have one 
longer day?” 
“I don’t know,” the boy said. “All I know is that young boys sleep late and hard.” 
“I can remember it,” the old man said. “I’ll waken you in time.” 
“I do not like for him to waken me. It is as though I were inferior.” 
“I know.” 
“Sleep well old man.” 
